# ASSESSMENT 6: Interview Practice Questions

Answer the following questions.

First, without external resources. Challenge yourself to answer from memory.

Then, research the question to expand on your answer. Even if you feel you have answered the question completely on your own, there is always something more to learn. Write your researched answer in your OWN WORDS.

1. As a developer, I am creating a Rails application with a model called Cohort that has_many students, but OOPS! I forgot to add the foreign key. How can I fix this mistake? What is the name of the foreign key? Would the foreign key be on the Cohort model or the Student model?

Your answer: If you forget to add a foreign key you can fix this by simply generating a migration for the foreign key within the students table. You can run the command ``` $ rails g migration AddForeignKeyToStudents ``` within the terminal to create a new migration in order to add the foreign key. Locate the migration file and within the change method write ``` add_column :student, :cohort_id, :integer ```. The foreign key will be in the Student model because it belongs to the Cohort model and for that reason the foreign key will be named cohort_id. Finally you can run the command ``` rails db:migrate ``` to finish adding the foreign key to your schema.

Researched answer: If you forget to add a foreign key to your Student model the foreign key to the Cohort model, you can generate a migration using the following command: ```rails generate migration AddForeignKeyToStudents cohort:references``` This will create a migration file that adds a foreign key to the students table, referencing the cohorts table. The foreign key name would be `cohort_id`, which is the default name generated by Rails when using the `references` attribute. The foreign key would be on the Student model, as it's the model that belongs to the Cohort model. So, the migration generated will add a cohort_id column to the students table

2. Which RESTful routes must always be passed params? Why?

Your answer: The RESTful routes that must always have params passed are the POST and PUT/PATCH routes. The reason for the POST route requiring params is that you need params to be inputted when creating (POST) a new entity into the database. Similar to the POST route, the PUT/PATCH route require params because without them it isn't possible to locate or update an entity within the database.

Researched answer: There are two RESTful routes that must always be passed params: POST, and PUT/PATCH. For the POST route, you must pass params to provide the necessary information to create the resource. Without these params, the resource cannot be created. Also, when updating an existing resource using the PUT/PATCH routes, you must pass params that specify what changes should be made to the resource. Without these params, the resource will not be updated.

3. Name three rails generator commands. What is created by each?

Your answer: The names of some of the rails generator commands I use pretty often are: rails g migration, rails g controller, and rails g model.

rails g migration: Generates a migration within the migrate directory that contains the migration name and attributes. Migrations are used to update/change the database in different ways. To execute the changes when you are done in the migrate directory you would run rails db:migrate in the console.

rails g controller: Running this command in the terminal creates a new controller within the controllers directory. Optional Action methods can be added to the controller file.

rails g model: Running this command create a model within the models directory and also generates a migration file in the migrate directory to create a data base. Attributes can be specified when running this command as well to create columns within the database. You can find the structure of the database within the schema.

Researched answer: The name of three commonly used rails generator commands are: rails g controller, rails g migrate, rails g model:

rails g controller: The `rails generate controller <ControllerName> <OptionalActionNames>` command creates a new controller file in the app/controllers directory and optionally creates view templates for each specified action in the app/views/<controller_name> directory.

rails g migrate: The `rails generate migration` <MigrationName> <OptionalAttributes> command generates a new migration file in the db/migrate directory with the specified name and optional attributes. Migration files are used to modify the database schema over time and can add, remove, or modify database tables, columns, or indices.

rails g model: The `rails generate model <ModelName> <OptionalAttributes> command creates a new model file in the app/models directory and generates a migration file in the db/migrate directory to create a corresponding database table. The model file defines the structure and behavior of the model and the migration file defines the schema of the corresponding table.

4. Consider the Rails routes below. What is the name of the controller method that would be called by each route? What action would each of the controller methods perform?

action: "GET" location: /students
- index is the controller method for the GET action. The method would get and display all students that exist within the database.

action: "POST" location: /students
- create  is the controller method for this POST action. The method would create a new student entity within the database based on the parameters passed

action: "GET" location: /students/new
- new is the controller method for for this GET action. The method would display a form for the creation of a new student entity within the database

action: "GET" location: /students/2
- show is the controller method for this GET action. The method would display the student entity with the corresponding id passed into the parameter. In this case, the student with the id of 2.

action: "GET" location: /students/2/edit
- edit is the controller method for this GET action. The method would display a form for editing the student entity with the corresponding id specified in the parameter. In this case, student id is 2.

action: "PATCH" location: /students/2
- update is the controller method for this PATCH action. The method would update the student entity with the corresponding id with the parameters specified in the request.

action: "DELETE" location: /students/2
- destroy is the controller method for this DELETE action. The method would the student entity with the corresponding id of 2 from the database.

5. As a developer, you are making an application to manage your to do list. Create 10 user stories that will help you get your application started. Read more about [user stories](https://www.atlassian.com/agile/project-management/user-stories).

1. As a user, I want to be able to create a new task so that I can keep track of what I need to do.

2. As a user, I want to be able to mark a task as complete so that I can keep track of what I have completed.

3. As a user, I want to be able to view a list of all my tasks so that I can see everything that needs to be done.

4. As a user, I want to be able to view a list of just my incomplete tasks so that I can focus on what I need to complete.

5. As a user, I want to be able to edit a task so that I can update it if I need to change something.

6. As a user, I want to be able to delete a task so that I can remove it from my list if I choose to.

7. As a user, I want to be able to sort my tasks by different criteria so that I can organize them.

8. As a user, I want to be able to set a due date for a task so that I can prioritize certain tasks over others.

9. As a user, I want to be able to add notes or comments to a task so that I can provide additional context or instructions for completing it.

10. As a user, I want to be able to search for a task by keyword so that I can quickly find a specific task.

